Api migration tool (#7867)
kyma-project/kyma: components/api-gateway-migrator/README.md

## Overview

This program translates old api objects (Api) to a new one (ApiRule)
Usage:
go run cmd/main.go --label-blacklist=migration/status

To see all possible arguments, use the following:
go run cmd/main.go -h

After migration, old Api objects are disabled - the host is randomized to point to a non-existing location.
Objects themselves are not deleted. Users can delete all migrated Api objects with the following command:
`kubectl delete apis -l migration/status=migrated --all-namespaces`

## Api migration example

Sample api and migration results are are shown below.

#### Input Api

>     apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1alpha2
>     kind: Api
>     metadata:
>         name: httpbin-api
>     spec:
>         service:
>           name: httpbin
>           port: 8000
>         hostname: httpbin.kyma.local
>         authentication:
>         - type: JWT
>           jwt:
>             issuer: https://dex.kyma.local
>             jwksUri: http://dex-service.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local:5556/keys
>             triggerRule:
>               excludedPaths:
>               - suffix: /favicon.ico
>               - regex: /anything.+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1alpha2
    kind: Api
    metadata:
        name: httpbin-api
    spec:
        service:
          name: httpbin
          port: 8000
        hostname: httpbin.kyma.local
        authentication:
        - type: JWT
          jwt:
            issuer: https://dex.kyma.local
            jwksUri: http://dex-service.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local:5556/keys
            triggerRule:
              excludedPaths:
              - suffix: /favicon.ico
              - regex: /anything.+
    ```
```

#### Output ApiRule

>     apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
>     kind: APIRule
>     metadata:
>       name: httpbin
>     spec:
>       gateway: kyma-gateway.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local
>       service:
>         name: httpbin
>         port: 8000
>         host: httpbin-new.kyma.local
>       rules:
>         - path: /favicon.ico
>           methods: ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "PATCH", "HEAD", "OPTIONS"]
>           accessStrategies:
>             - handler: allow
>         - path: /anything.+
>           methods: ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "PATCH", "HEAD", "OPTIONS"]
>           accessStrategies:
>             - handler: allow
>         - path: /.*
>           methods: ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "PATCH", "HEAD", "OPTIONS"]
>           accessStrategies:
>             - handler: jwt
>               config:
>                 trusted_issuers:
>                   - "https://dex.kyma.local"
>                 jwks_urls:
>                   - "http://dex-service.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local:5556/keys"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
    kind: APIRule
    metadata:
      name: httpbin
    spec:
      gateway: kyma-gateway.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local
      service:
        name: httpbin
        port: 8000
        host: httpbin-new.kyma.local
      rules:
        - path: /favicon.ico
          methods: ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "PATCH", "HEAD", "OPTIONS"]
          accessStrategies:
            - handler: allow
        - path: /anything.+
          methods: ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "PATCH", "HEAD", "OPTIONS"]
          accessStrategies:
            - handler: allow
        - path: /.*
          methods: ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "PATCH", "HEAD", "OPTIONS"]
          accessStrategies:
            - handler: jwt
              config:
                trusted_issuers:
                  - "https://dex.kyma.local"
                jwks_urls:
                  - "http://dex-service.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local:5556/keys"
    ```
```

For more examples take a look into ./examples folder.

> You can find there also an example of a complicated api object that will NOT be automatically migrated by this tool: ./examples/invalid.for.migration.input.yaml

Reviewer: Maybe use link to the files here?

Author: Done.

## Overview

This program translates old api objects (Api) to a new one (ApiRule)
Usage:
`go run cmd/main.go --label-blacklist=migration/status`

To see all possible arguments, use the following:
`go run cmd/main.go -h`

After migration, old Api objects are disabled - the host is randomized to point to a non-existing location.
Objects themselves are not deleted. Users can delete all migrated Api objects with the following command:

> `kubectl delete apis -l migration/status=migrated --all-namespaces`

Reviewer 2: I would change it to the following: 
(I haven't use the suggestion here since it didn't work well with several lines + code)

## Usage

To migrate APIs to APIRules, run: 

```bash
go run cmd/main.go --label-blacklist=migration/status
```
To see all possible arguments, run: 
```bash
go run cmd/main.go -h
```

After migration, the host is randomized to point to a non-existing location. This disables the existing APIs, but does not remove the objects. To delete all migrated API objects, run:
```bash
kubectl delete apis -l migration/status=migrated --all-namespaces
```

Author: Done.

> ## Api migration example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Development
### API migration example
```

> Sample api and migration results are are shown below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I would remove this part and divide it into two examples:

> #### Input Api

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example shows a sample input API:
```

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1alpha2
    kind: Api
    metadata:
        name: httpbin-api
    spec:
        service:
          name: httpbin
          port: 8000
        hostname: httpbin.kyma.local
        authentication:
        - type: JWT
          jwt:
            issuer: https://dex.kyma.local
            jwksUri: http://dex-service.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local:5556/keys
            triggerRule:
              excludedPaths:
              - suffix: /favicon.ico
              - regex: /anything.+
    ```

> #### Output ApiRule

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example shows an APIRule resulting from the migration:
```

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
    kind: APIRule
    metadata:
      name: httpbin
    spec:
      gateway: kyma-gateway.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local
      service:
        name: httpbin
        port: 8000
        host: httpbin-new.kyma.local
      rules:
        - path: /favicon.ico
          methods: ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "PATCH", "HEAD", "OPTIONS"]
          accessStrategies:
            - handler: allow
        - path: /anything.+
          methods: ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "PATCH", "HEAD", "OPTIONS"]
          accessStrategies:
            - handler: allow
        - path: /.*
          methods: ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "PATCH", "HEAD", "OPTIONS"]
          accessStrategies:
            - handler: jwt
              config:
                trusted_issuers:
                  - "https://dex.kyma.local"
                jwks_urls:
                  - "http://dex-service.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local:5556/keys"
    ```

> For more examples take a look into ./examples folder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more examples, see the `./examples` folder.
```
Maybe we can link to the folder? 🤔

> You can find there also an example of a complex api object that will NOT be automatically migrated by this tool: [complex api](./examples/invalid.for.migration.input.yaml)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The folder includes an example of a [complex API](./examples/invalid.for.migration.input.yaml) object that the migration tool does **not** migrate automatically.
```

> Such objects can still be migrated manually using rather complex regular expressions for paths. You can see an example of manually created ApiRule that corresponds to a complicated api it in the file: [complex ApiRule](./examples/invalid.for.migration.output.yaml)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can still migrate such objects manually using complex regular expressions for paths. [Here](./examples/invalid.for.migration.output.yaml) you can see an example of a manually created APIRule that corresponds to a complex API.
```

> ## The rules for skipping api objects

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Rules for skipping API objects
```

> The tool skips api objects for the following reasons:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During the migration, the tool can skip some API objects for the following reasons:
```

> - api is already migrated
> - api has invalid status
> - api labels are matching configured "label-blacklist" parameter
> - api is too complex for automatic translation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- API is already migrated
- API has an invalid status
- API labels match the configured **label-blacklist** parameter
- API is too complex for automatic translation
```

> The api is considered too complex if it has more than one `authentication.jwt` element and every `jwt` object has different nested `excludedPaths`.
> If the api has more than one `authentication.jwt` elements but all of them have the same nested `excludedPaths` (or none at all), it will be translated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The API is considered too complex if it has more than one `authentication.jwt` element and every `jwt` object has different nested `excludedPaths`.
If the API has more than one `authentication.jwt` element, but all of such elements have the same nested `excludedPaths` (or none at all), the migration tool will translate it.
```

# API Gateway Migrator

> This tool translates the existing API objects (APIs) to new ones (APIRules).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The API Gateway Migrator translates the existing API objects (APIs) to new ones (APIRules).
```

## Usage:
To migrate APIs to APIRules, run:
```bash
go run cmd/main.go --label-blacklist=migration/status
```

To see all possible arguments, run:
```bash
go run cmd/main.go -h
```

> After migration, the host is randomized to point to a non-existing location. This disables the existing APIs, but does not remove the objects. To delete all migrated API objects, run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The migration process randomizes the host to point to a non-existing location. This disables the existing APIs but does not remove the objects. To delete all migrated API objects, run:
```

```bash
kubectl delete apis -l migration/status=migrated --all-namespaces
```

## Development
### API migration example

This example shows a sample input API:

>     ```yaml

Reviewer 2: There is a problem with the rendering of these two code snippets - I think the indentation can be the issue

Author: Done.
